---
title: "On Grief"
description: null
type: Poem
cover:
  folder: rotting-flesh-beating-heart
  filename: cover.png
  header: cover.png
  sizes: [500, 600, 700, 1000, 1280]
  formats: ['png', 'webp', 'avif']
author: "teacherbuknoy"
language: "en"
seo:
  twitter:
    src: "/literatures/rotting-flesh-beating-heart/twitter.png"
    is_prefixed: true
  og:
    src: "/literatures/rotting-flesh-beating-heart/og.png"
    is_prefixed: true
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

When you're alone with your thoughts<br>
Do you feel the sharp tongue of grief<br>
Crawling around the center of your chest<br>
And cutting through a little too deep?

When laying down at night<br>
Do you struggle to fall asleep<br>
Knowing I'm no longer by your side<br>
To be someone to see your light?

You asked for this, so I guess you don't.<br>
But I die every night<br>
Only to rise up in the morning<br>
Go through the motions and die yet again.

The road we drive in is an endless journey<br>
I let you in, with all your dichotomies<br>
So what do I do<br>
Now that I drive this car without you

You brought all the colors along with you<br>
No paint could bring it back<br>
And no fantasy is good enough<br>
So what do I do with the space you left?

You took the music away with you<br>
Now I sing out of tune<br>
Every rhythm is too fast and too slow<br>
So what do I do with all the noise?

How do I build a house from a pile of strangers?<br>
How could you turn a home into just four walls and a roof?<br>
I kill myself to keep you, one of the ones you call friend<br>
While I bleed a pail and try to patch it up a little

I wish to have seen you suffer<br>
I wish to have seen you cry<br>
I wish to have heard you wail<br>
I wish to have felt you feel your pain

Because if grief is the price you pay for love<br>
Was there no love left in you in the first place?<br>
And if grief is the price you pay for love<br>
Then why am I the only one paying?